Idea is to eventually be a browser-based BZFlag client.

(ThreeZFlag is the current working name.)

So, idea right now is that the server-side component basically just relays packets between bzfs and the client, perhaps with a bit of interpretation if I can't figure out an easy way to parse binary packet data in JavaScript.

But of course I want the communications details abstracted into a class (and by "class" I mean a JavaScript function with a prototype, that sort of thing), so I can worry about the precise details later.

(It'd be nice to write a bzfs plugin that allows tzf to talk directly to a bzfs, but I don't recall at the moment if the bzfs API allows one to intercept socket connections... I'll worry about that later.)

So we have a class that we can use to talk to the server and that can talk to us. (Note: unlike BZFlag, there won't be a global message callback like handleServerMessage; I'm trying as hard as I can to avoid globals, so I think I'm going to have some sort of World object that tracks a map, players, shots, and that sort of thing, and messages would just be passed from the server link to the world.)

So we also have shots.

And probably shot strategies like BZFlag has. I don't like the huge if statement in LocalPlayer (I believe) that decides what shot type have an effect on the player and so on, so I'd like to move those to shot behavior classes if at all possible.

So I probably need shot behaviors or something, and shot behaviors specify associated strategies, where strategies are concerned solely with how the shot moves (so ShockwaveStrategy (which I like better than ShockWaveStrategy, just noting), GuidedMissileStrategy, OrdinaryStrategy, maybe SuperBulletStrategy although that could just be a special case of OrdinaryStrategy... and I think that's it) and behaviors control other things like whether the shot affects zoned tanks and so on. (So if SuperBulletStrategy is combined into OrdinaryStrategy, then SuperBulletBehavior would be in charge of instantiating the OrdinaryStrategy in such a way that it would go through walls.)

So we also probably need an object representing the physical world, i.e.... the map. So I think Map will do.

Shot strategies (and therefore effects) would presumably have access to it to calculate ricochet and such things.

So I'm thinking the world will have functions for doing things to it (like creating shots fired by remote players, or giving it updates as to a player's last known position and velocity) and events that it will issue when it's doing things (like when it's updated a GM's velocity and such to point toward a given remote player). Then we have a class (like Coordinator or something) that's given a world and a server link, and it's in charge of receiving messages from the server link and applying them to the world and listening for events from the world and sending them as messages to the server link.

So I'm thinking it might be cool, probably in a future version, to move all of the shot intersection, GM tracking, and such logic to the server and then have the client be relatively dumb in comparison. Then the client tells the server its speed and direction (and the server could do some sanity checking on this) and when it wants to fire a bullet, and the server tells the client when it's died and so forth. Then locally-fired GMs would be updated the same as remotely-fired GMs as far as the client's concerned, and the client can instruct the server to lock them onto a new target and things like that. And same with locally-fired shots; the client just tells the server that it wants to fire a shot or something, and the server creates the shot and then tells the client where it is and stuff.

Food for thought. So I should make sure and design the world and associated objects such that it would be fairly easy to swap in an implementation that works with things being tracked on the server, and make sure that both sets of objects could easily coexist and interoperate, so that I could maintain working copies of both client-does-everything clients and server-does-everything clients.

(Probably have as much as possible in the coordinator then, and have a different strategy. So then the coordinator probably injects shots, with their behaviors and strategies, into the world, and the world handles updating them from there.)

Anyways.

And maybe like... Shots could have listeners that are called when the shot's absorbed, probably by the local tank (which would probably then fire an event noting that it died, or that it dropped its currently held shield flag, or something like that). Then the coordinator just sets a listener on shots it creates to send a server message when they're absorbed and such.

And so then the local player could have events for things like it dying.

And it'd be kind of cool to make this flexible enough that two local players, each with their own cameras (and one using up/down/left/right and one using WSAD), could be on the same world, although there's rendering issues involved with that that might make that too tricky.

Although the world could just be the model, and we could have the 3D objects be separate entities that register listeners on the world objects and update themselves accordingly... That might be getting a bit complicated though, and I'm not sure how well it would perform.

You know, I could always write it like that, with the idea that the view will be a separate entity, and then fall back to having objects integrated into the world if it turns out it doesn't perform well.

Actually, one big advantage of separating things out is that then the radar is just a particular view of the world, and the HUD is another such view.

So the view would need to be told when new shots are brought into existence and when shots go away.

It would need to be told the same about tanks.

It would need to be told when shots move.

It would need to be told when tanks move.

So a world takes care of animating itself, or rather, it's expected that you start an animation loop calling an animate function on the world every frame or something like that. Or maybe the world does that itself and then you tell the world to stop animating itself just before you're about to throw it away because you're disconnecting or whatever. So it's the world that's in charge of actually animating things, and shots and tanks by themselves don't actually end up moving at all. I think that's fair enough for now, although I could theoretically change that later to have each thing take care of animating itself, although it's questionable how good a job it could do without knowing what else is in the world around it to collide with and such, so yeah.

(Oh and, thinking effects like bolts exploding at the end of their life should be view only, so the world doesn't know about them. Radar doesn't have that, so you know.)

So we have listeners on things, and presumably we have a way to suppress events temporarily as needed, and we assume that we won't have circular events or anything like that, so that should be fine.

So, some basics.

We can listen for when a new shot is added to a world.

So then the HUD listens for shots to be added, and when they're added, it sets up a sprite in the 3D world and then adds listeners to the shot for when it moves and for when it's destroyed.

Then, whenever the shot's moved, it updates the sprite's position.

When the shot's destroyed, it removes the sprite. And it'll be told why it was destroyed, and depending on the reason it might choose to add an explosion in its place.

So then the coordinator would also register to be notified when shots are added, and its own logic that adds shots that the server reports would suppress receipt of the new shot notification so that it wouldn't tell the server about a shot that the server told it about. (We could also just only tell the server about our shots, but suppressing the event really is the proper way of doing the thing.) When it's told about a new shot, it sends a message to the server.

And it also registers to be notified when the shot goes away. When it does, the coordinator would send a MsgShotEnd as appropriate for the reason the shot went away. (I don't remember if we send MsgShotEnd if we're terminating the shot because we got shot, but if we don't, then we'd just not send anything if that's the case. The world takes care of letting us know in these events why the shot was terminated.)

So then I'm not exactly sure how GMs would be handled... I really don't want the world knowing things specific to GMs, though, if I can help it.

So ok, what if shots (normal shots; not worrying about shockwaves/lasers/thief beams yet) have... well, they have a current position, and then they have a strategy, and the strategy can be told hey, you know how the shot's supposed to fly, now here's a shot and a number representing the current time; update this shot's position, or tell the shot that its lifespan is over and it's supposed to die, or whatever. So then the normal strategy would compute where the shot's supposed to be on its path given the current time and update its position accordingly, and the GM strategy would compute where it's supposed to be based on the last update sent from the client that fired the GM (only the GM strategy itself doesn't know that, it just knows that its info is being constantly updated, and for remote shots that would be by the coordinator and for local shots that would be by perhaps an instance of GMTargeter or some class like that that knows how to take a tank and a GM and make the GM follow the tank somehow).

And actually, I think I was going to have strategies be in charge of figuring out if they hit us. So then we probably construct the strategy with the shot as a parameter (reference cycles will happen here, but that should be fine) and then we continually tell the strategy how much time has passed and to update itself, and at some point during one update it might decide to nix the shot because it's decided that the shot would impact our tank and then also nix our tank.

So I think that would largely work. Then shockwaves.

They're basically shots with slightly different model data, like no velocity but a rate at which they're expanding. And the behavior... Oh, I need to go re-read what the point of those Behavior classes I was writing was and if I still want to use them... Anyways... OH, Actually, maybe shots don't hold a reference to strategies, it's just the other way around, and strategies animate themselves somehow and update the shot as needed and then listen for the shot to be destroyed and stop animating themselves, and then the coordinator itself holds onto the GMStrategy instance and updates it as updates come in from the server but the world has no idea about it. That might work.

Anyways, shockwaves... seem like a weapon but with different metadata. But they'd have a strategy as well, and it would update their radius and such and then see which tanks are within the radius and kill them off. (So note, a strategy probably needs a reference to the world in which the shot that it's animating lives.)

(And actually, I just realized three.js nodes hold references to their parents, so reference cycles are totally fine.)

So I should benchmark how many functions can be registered with requestAnimationFrame without slowing things down. Because if it's a large number, then theoretically I could just have each strategy take care of animating itself and cancelling animation when its shot is destroyed. Then creating a shot could theoretically be as simple as:

var shot = new Shot(...probably info about who fired it etc...);
world.addShot(shot); // Causes MsgShotBegin to be sent if this shot is our shot... oooh, how do we handle locally created GMs here?
var strategy = new OrdinaryStrategy(world, shot, ...start point, direction, speed, distance, etc...);

and that would be it. Maybe OrdinaryStrategy would have a start function or something, but really, that probably isn't even needed.

And then maybe we just have generic weapons that can be added to the world, with bullets and shockwaves and lasers being the three main ones right now.

So, if that event causes the MsgShotBegin to be sent, I need to think about how we get GM updates to the coordinator properly. That needs a bit more thought, and I'll worry about that tomorrow.

(Maybe we don't have strategies, and instead just subclasses of Shot, and Shot subclasses Weapon... Then we can make additional strategies by subclassing Shot. Needs more thought.)

...gm extrapolation needed both local and remote gm shots, then velocity info updates is what's different; locals are updated by a targeter, remotes are updated by packets. locals being updated causes packets to be sent as well...

So then maybe we do have a class GMShot which requests animation frames and updates its superclass's position based on velocity etc., and then something else updates its velocity and location info; locally fired shots are wrapped in a GMTargeter that updates the shot to face the target, and the coordinator sees the velocity being changed and sends updates accordingly, and then remote shots are updated by the coordinator when it receives messages. That'd work.

(We'd probably want to have the world track a list of targeters or something so that they can change who they're targeting if we lock onto someone else mid flight. Or the world can report who we're locked on to and then targeters just register to receive a notice when the world changes that.)

So then to fire a local shot at otherPlayer, we just do something like:

var shot = new GMShot(location, initialVelocity, me, ...);
world.addShot(shot); // Causes MsgShotBegin to be sent out
new GMTargeter(me, shot, otherPlayer).start(); // me would carry a reference to who we're locked on to somehow, so we need that. Also note that when we lock onto someone, we'd want to listen for them to disconnect and remove our lock on them when that happens.

(Other quick note: if we have the coordinator keep its own list of players the server's told it about, we can have other local players on the field that the server doesn't know about and that would work "fine". Not sure if there's actually any point to that, but it might come in useful if I ever implement bots... Not sure if the protocol even supports those anymore, but food for thought. Not too big an issue, though, so maybe I won't worry about it for now.)

Or we could even have a Locker or something that holds a single reference to someone we've locked on to, and then we just give a GMTargeter a locker to follow. That would let GMs be created independently of local players, which would be useful to allow world weapons to fire GMs locked onto specific players. (I don't remember if BZFlag permits this at present, but if not, it really should.)

Actually... We could call that a Targeter, and then call the thing that points a GM toward a player a GMFollower. I like that better.

So then Targeter just registers a listener on whoever it's targeting telling them to let it know when they're disconnecting or when they die so it can stop targeting them. Then when we remove a player (or when we die for that matter), we null out its targeter's target to get rid of the reference from the target to the targeter and then we're all good.

So, with that paradigm, firing a GM would look something like:

var shot = new GMShot(me, location, velocity, ...);
world.addShot(shot); // Causes MsgShotBegin to be sent out
new GMFollower(shot, me.targeter);

and, presuming that me.targeter.target == otherPlayer, that would create a shot that would follow said player.

(Heck, I could write a quick function that creates a targeter that gets nulled out when a particular shot ends, and then it'd be /really easy/ to hand-roll code that fires a GM at a specific person.)

So collision detection and position extrapolation are handled inside GMShot, not GMFollower, and the most GMFollower knows about it is when it's told that the GMShot collided with the intended target or a wall and was destroyed, in which case the targeter duly stops animating itself, unregisters listeners, and waits patiently to be garbage collected.

GMFollower would also register listeners on the player currently being targeted such that it would be notified when the player's position changes, which it could then use to update the direction toward which the GM should be facing. In fact, if I do that I think I can make GMFollower not even need to animate itself at all, except possibly when it's trying to steer toward a target and isn't able to turn sharp enough immediately to do so; I don't recall exactly how this is handled at the protocol level in BZFlag, but I'd need to account for it as well.

(I really should read up again on how BZFlag handles GM tracking.)

So then shockwaves are weapons that don't even subclass Shot. They still look like weapons, though, so you can ask them to let you know when they go away (but note that they don't go away due to having hit someone, for obvious reasons, so they'll let tanks know that they're dead now but they won't kill themselves until they expire).

And the coordinator would request to be notified when we, the local tank, are dead, and it would send a... whatever the message is that tells everyone that we just died and for what reason. Then there would be a function like kill() on the local tank that you give it a reason why we've died and it lets listeners know.

And the same thing happens with remote tanks, except it's the coordinator calling kill() and only the HUD and the radar take any notice of it instead of the coordinator as well because it's not the local tank. (The coordinator probably needs to be given an explicit reference to the local tank that it can listen for things to happen to; it doesn't care if another tank dies (as this shouldn't even happen without its say so), only if the local tank dies.)



So, notes about some messages and flags and how they'd fit into this model.

(Oh, and note: starting in BZFlag 2.4, we don't know what type of a flag a given flag is until we pick it up or presumably someone else does. I don't recall whether we're given enough information to keep track of what type a flag is after that, so I'll worry about that when I come to the relevant messages.)

(I'm reading through playing.cxx to make sure I can account for the entire protocol with my current conceptual model.)

So...

MsgNearFlag: I'll think about this one in a bit.

MsgFetchResources: Not sure what this does yet, so I'll come back to it.

MsgCustomSound: I didn't even know this existed... We'll just ignore it for now.

MsgUDPLinkEstablished: The server will handle the specifics of how we actually communicate updates, so I don't need to worry about this for now. (I'm thinking my first version will just send everything across a WebSocket; later on I'll probably try using WebRCP, which I'm told can be used to effect communication over UDP with the server, with WebSocket channeling everything that goes over TCP in normal BZFlag and perhaps channeling updates if WebRCP isn't available. That would actually provide a really good argument for moving things to the server, since then the lag/jitter introduced by using TCP would simply serve to make the client's life more difficult, not the other clients in the world.)

MsgUDPLinkRequest: Same thing.

MsgSuperKill: Just disconnect. I'll worry about how we go about setting up a world later, but the world shouldn't care about how and when it's set up and such things, apart from having a function that can be used to tell it to stop animating itself.

MsgAccept: I don't recall exactly what this does... I think it's sent to us when the server decides to let us join a game. So that's also beyond the scope of the world.

MsgReject: Same thing.

MsgNegotiateFlags: Not sure what this one does, as the client appears to just issue a warning if it contains any content.

...skipping game setup ones...

MsgGameTime: Not sure if this is an absolute measure of time provided by the server or time left in a match... I'll worry about that later as well.

MsgTimeUpdate: Ah, that one seems to be the "time left" one. I'll worry about that later as well, although I'll probably just keep it in global state somewhere (does it belong on the world, or should there be an object on top of the world that handles things not related to objects physically /in/ the world, like world variables, whether a game's running, chat messages, and so on?).

MsgScoreOver: Same thing, I think that has to do with matches as well.

MsgAddPlayer: Now we're getting to the fun ones. This one's sent when a player joins the server, including us. I believe we get sent our player id as part of MsgAccept, so we can use that to see if it's us or someone else. If it's someone else, we'd just create some sort of player object and stick it into the world.

Oh, interesting question: how are we handling players? Do we have player objects and then tank objects which are attached to a player, and the tank objects disappear from the world when the players aren't alive? Or do we just have players, and players either have a position or they don't? I'm not sure.

Would a tank, for that matter, need to keep any state beyond its position? Or if we had it track what flags it's holding, what would be left for players to hold?

So you know what, for now let's just have one object representing players, and they either have a position or they don't, and they have an event that's fired when they die (which we already want to have; the coordinator listens using that event for us to die and notifies the server that we died).

So if it's someone else, we'd probably create a player for them, stick them into the world, associate them either on the world (if it knows about player ids) or on the coordinator with their player id in a dictionary that we can use to access them as needed, and... I think that'd be it. The player would presumably include their name and such information.

Oh, and, players have a team that they're associated with (probably just generic objects with names and such, but with global constant instances for the standard BZFlag teams that the coordinator can make use of; I'll worry about how to handle the rogue team later). We probably specify this on the player object (but note that players can be moved to a different team as of BZFlag 2.4 iirc while the game is playing, so we'd need to be able to listen for this to change in the view), and then the world (or the bookkeeping object if it's separate) would track a dictionary of teams to players on those teams.

(Players also have associated statistics like wins, losses, tks, and they have a motto as well.)

Digression: This seems to be a pattern, having a bunch of fixed properties that can each be observed for changes (and being able to suppress a given observer while making changes to such a property). I think I might write a simple property mechanism to handle that automatically... Or on second thought, I don't think I will, and I'll write one later once I've got code (presumably with lots of boilerplate) that works.

I also need to keep in mind that the protocol allows a client to join multiple robots to the server (although most servers don't allow it iirc), so I should keep things generic enough that that would work. And particularly, things identifying players uniquely in a world no longer map to BZFlag player ids since a robot, I believe, just reuses the player's id, so we'd need something else to identify them in dictionaries and such. Probably just use the old unique-id-per-object pattern and then have a dictionary (I could create an IdentityDictionary class to handle this; it would just inspect each object's objectId, say, property and compare with that, and then objects would be in charge of allocating themselves objectId values) mapping BZFlag ids to players and their robots and vice versa. Or we just store the player id and/or the robot id on the Player object and then look at player events and use those when sending to the server; then we'd only need the server-player-id/robot-id-to-Player dictionary for the sake of directing received position updates accordingly.

Anyways...

Also, observers... Not sure how to handle those yet; maybe players added to the world that don't have a position, and have a special type or something like that.

So, if it's us being added, we just create a player, set up listeners on it that listen for when it spawns and when it's killed and when its velocity changes and so on and so forth and have them send status updates to the server, and so on.

(I also need to figure out where the logic for telling if a bullet has intersected us is going to go. Maybe have a custom class that monitors our local tank, or have a LocalTank class... Actually yeah, have a base Player class that tracks position and basic things that all players have, and then LocalPlayer checks for collisions or delegates to flags as necessary... I was going to do that, wasn't I?... whereas RemotePlayer wouldn't.)

MsgRemovePlayer: If it's remote, find the player in the world and remove it. Also remove shots that it originated, or assign them to the world weapon, I don't remember how that's supposed to be handled. (Or have shots be associated with a Player object instead of a player id; then just remove the player from the world. That way we'd still be able to tell in the status window who shot us even if they parted. We'd probably want to null out the player's bzfs id, though, and then have the coordinator tell everyone that the world weapon killed us if the player's id is nulled out.)

Oooh, make sure to handle the world weapon properly. Probably just have it be an actual player on the world which we just never spawn or anything like that, but which we let fire shots as needed. Or just don't add a player to the world at all and insert shots pointing to a Player object representing the world weapon that isn't actually part of the world.

MsgFlagUpdate: Not sure what that does, so come back to it later.

MsgTeamUpdate: I believe that includes updates about a team's score; not sure if it includes reassigning players. If just the former, update bookkeeping information (and actually, we'd probably want to have team objects be specific to a coordinator, then, since they'd be mutable) on the team objects. If the latter, update a player's assigned team.

(Oh, make sure we're accounting for game modes like hunt the rabbit, CTF, and such, and make sure that the details of those modes can be abstracted into a separate class like GameType that controls that side of the game's logic.)

Hm, game types...

Rabbit chase just assigns players to teams as needed.

CTF takes care of seeing when a player lands on a base and taking the flag from them and such things and managing CTF store and so forth.

And actually, I'd probably have the game type handle the specifics of team killing, since it's something that's somewhat specific to the type of game being played.

Oh, random aside: I just saw mention that a while back someone requested a non-lethal weapon that just disabled a tank for a short amount of time, in response to which the Phoenix plugin was written. I should keep the possibility of such a weapon being introduced in the future in mind while writing everything... That shouldn't be too hard, really, if shot collision and killing are offloaded to the strategies themselves, as then this non lethal weapon's strategy would simply mark the local tank as disabled somehow instead of killing it.

Also, I'm not sure if the server can synthesize shots on behalf of a player (I was just reminded of the shockwaveDeath plugin and realized it'd be neat if the resulting shockwave could be synthesized on behalf of the player that died instead of being a world weapon), but I should make sure I can account for things like that. And the server would presumably be in charge of making changes to such shots... So... actually, as long as I don't have any "Is this the local player? Yes, it is / No, it isn't" tied into shot tracking or anything, then that should be fine; we simply create different strategies or whatever for shots reported remotely regardless of what id they were reported under.

Another totally random idea that'll never happen: it'd be cool if both tzf and the main client supported status lines or some such thing, some sort of ability for the server to set a piece of persistent text that would show up on the hud and report something, and it'd be cool if some sort of markup could be included to indicate an inline timer or two. It'd be given in terms of the time at which it's supposed to be at zero, which directions it can count (just count up and stay at zero until the zero time rolls around, just count down and stay at zero once the zero time rolls around, can count both up and down and flips over when the zero time rolls around, or can't count at all and is useful only for display purposes as a stopped timer), and... maybe a color that it turns once it hits zero or something, I dunno. Point would be to allow things like KOTH to show a countdown to win without having to send out messages every so often.



So I just found out something rather unexpected: apparently, GM updates are only sent when the player being tracked changes, not every N seconds like I had expected. It's then up to the client to not only make local GMs track opponents but to make remote GMs track opponents, local or otherwise, as well, and it's also up to the client to expire and teleport GMs as it thinks they should be. This makes me really nervous (imagine how easy it would be for a small amount of lag to shift a GM that cleared a wall on one client into colliding with the wall on another client), but if it's how it is, then so be it.

I want to be able to support GMs that stream positioning information more frequently (perhaps as frequently as position updates for the player being tracked are received) as far as the model goes, but I'll also need to support the way BZFlag itself does things right now...











