The TXT description files in the server project contain information about communications between clients and the server, etc.
whereas the TXT description files on the client contain information about how the UI and the code behind it work.

This file contains an overview of the projects associated with InTouch 3.

There are 3 projects as of this time. those are:

InTouch 3                         the end-user client
InTouch 3 Server                  the server
InTouch 3 Data Store              the program that stores large but generally temporary data



InTouch 3 is the client. it is what the end user sees. usually, the end user doesn't even know that the other 2 projects exist.

InTouch 3 Server is the server component. Clients connect to this. In the future, more than one server will be allowed, and they will
be managed by another project, InTouch 3 Server Manager.

InTouch 3 Data Store is the data store program. it runs on a computer with relatively large bandwith and a relatively large hard disk.
Messages sent when the recipient is offline are cached on one of these. Information is usually stored redundantly, on up to 3 of these
servers, so that space can be lent by computers that may be offline frequently.

anyway, about the data store and it's role in this whole system. each data store has a username and a password


THE ABOVE NEEDS UPDATING

there is one management server that runs. it stores authentication info for all users, all main servers, and all data stores.
it maintains a list of servers that are connected to it, and this list is accessible from any of the main servers.
it also keeps track of a few bits of information about main server useful for load balancing, such as
the number of users logged into each main server and the number of users that a main server states it can
handle. in the future, it will also keep track of the load (in bytes in and out) and latency of a main server,
so that if it detects that a main server is getting overloaded (even if it's owner specifies that
it still has user capacity), it will send users to other servers.
in general, the management server listens for connections on the main InTouch 3 port as well as on the
management port, and InTouch 3 clients are configured to connect to the management server as their server.
the management server then sends a redirect to the server it deems has the lowest load.
i'll get to which port numbers correspond to which parts of the system in just a minute.
anyway, each main server, upon startup, connects to the management server on the management port
and authenticates itself. it then requests a list of a















currently, only the workspace creator can create tools.