THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED BY newca2.txt

This document describes a new communications architecture for Convergia, and completely revises the communications protocols.

In the old architecture, there is a single server, and multiple clients. the clients authenticate using password-based authentication.
the server relays packets, called messages in this document, between clients.

Just a terminology note: in this document, i refer to 3 different components to the communications between clients. those are
online messaging, offline messaging, and storage. online messaging is using the client SENDMESSAGE command to send a message
to another client that is signed on. offline messaging is using the client commands INITOFFLINEMESSAGE, APPENDOFFLINEMESSAGE,
and SENDOFFLINEMESSAGE to construct a (potentially large) set of data to send to a user when they come online. storage is
using the client commands CREATEFOLDER, DELETEFOLDER, SETPERMISSIONS, CREATEFILE, WRITEFILE, DELETEFILE, LISTFOLDER, GETINFO,
and READFILE to read and write files.

There are a few different types of nodes:

Management server: There is only one of these running. This is the server in charge of all of the other servers. It manages user accounts
and authentication between all of the other servers. It also manages connections to the communications servers, to minimize data transfer
between communications servers. This is the only mandatory node, IE if it goes down, the entire Convergia server system goes down along 
with it. Sometime in the future the other nodes will be changed so that they can function without the management server, but no users
will be able to sign up, or connect to a different main server, while the management server is down.

Data management server: There is only one of these running. This is the server that is in charge of transferring stored data, such as
offline messaging and workspace storage. It also manages organizing data between data servers. all data reading and writing is routed
through this server. If this server goes down, the Convergia communications system will continue to function, but will not be able to
store any data. This means that the only component functioning will be online messaging. offline messaging and storage will not function.
In the future, this and the data servers will be changed so that they can use the (coming in the future) relay servers, thereby removing
this server as the data systems bottleneck.

Data server: There are generally multiple of these in the system, although only one is required. Data servers, as their names imply, store
data. They usually have a large hard disk attached to which they can store a specified amount of data. Data servers can be marked (by
configuration on the management server) as volatile or non-volatile. Volatile data servers do not need to be online constantly, or even
most of the time. Data stored on volatile servers will be stored on at least 3 of them. If one of them goes offline, the data will be
copied to another one by the data management server. non-volatile data servers are data servers that will be online all of the time. data
that is stored on a non-volatile data server will only be stored there once.

Main Server: There are generally multiple of these in the system, although only one is required. The client nodes connect to these. At
least one must be accessible outside of a firewall, and as many as all of the others can be behind a firewall, servicing clients within
the firewall. Each main server maintains a direct connection with each other main server that it can connect to (IE main servers in a firewall
won't be able to connect to main servers inside of a different firewall), and tells the management server which servers those are. the
management server can then plot routes between servers, which are used when a cross-server message is sent by the client. 

Relay Server (future, will not be added until the entire structure of other servers is done): This server would connect to the management
server and serve as a relay where needed in the system. The main point for use would be the (coming in the future) socket relay system
and relaying between data servers behind a firewall and main servers.

Client: These are the actual Convergia clients, the clients that end users use. When a client comes online, it first connects to the
management server and asks it for a list of main servers, which it then attempts to connect to. It then reports the information back
to the management server. the management server then tells the client which one it should connect to. The client attempts to connect
to that server. if the connect attempt fails after 5 tries, it starts over with the process just described. this will generally only
happen is the client has gone offline in that time or the server has gone offline.
UPDATE TO ABOVE: The client will, by default, report to the management server that it has already tried recently to connect to all
servers, and give the management server it's list of servers that it could connect to. It will also report the lag on each server.

Anyway, the actual protocol for communications has been revised. Each connection established is authenticated through the management server.
I'll get to that in a minute. With the new protocol, the ~ character is interpreted specially. specifically, a ~ means that the character after
that should be interpreted literally. The protocol is line-based, so this character comes in useful. The protocol also allows some commands
without authentication. There are only 2 right now, REGISTERACCOUNT and CONFIRMREGISTERACCOUNT. more on those later. (note: reigster account
sends a captcha the user must fill out, and confirm register account checks to make sure the captcha was entered correctly.)

The communications protocol now has more of a concept of packets. A packet is some data, ended by a newline. If newlines
need to be in the data, then the last character before the newline should be a ~, as per what was discussed above. A packet
starts with the id for the packet, a space, the name of the packet's command, a space, and any data. if a packet is sent in
strict response to another packet received, it should use the same packet id. otherwise, it should use a new packet id.

the management server maintains a route table, which it regenerates whenever a main server comes online or goes offline, and partly
regenerates whenever a client signs on, signs off, or switches main servers. only portions of the route table are downloaded to each
main server. the route table contains a list of routes that messages can follow to get from one main server to another. at first
glance, this may seem pointless, as you would think, since every main server has a connection to one another, message can be sent
directly from one server to another, but, as per the specification above, servers can be behind firewalls, so if a messages needs
to be transferred between to servers that are behind firewalls, the route table will contain an entry that instructs the sending
server to route it's message through a server outside of a firewall and to the other server inside of a different firewall, since
that other server would have a connection to a server outside of the firewall.

the route table also contains a list of which users are signed on to which servers. this is the part that gets updated whenever a user
signs on or off. whenever the route table is updated in this manner, the portion of the table that was updated is sent to all of the
main servers, along with a checksum for the new route table. if the checksums match, no further action is taken. if they do not match,
that server suspends communication and updates it's entire route table from the main server. it then resumes communication.

authentication of the management server is done using the server's SSL key. therefore, the management server MUST have a certificate
signed by a well-known certificate provider. The management server is intended to be hosted on trivergia.com, so it will use Trivergia's
Thawte-signed SSL certificate.

UPDATE: The route table will no longer be used. A map of what connects to what can still be obtained through commands to the main server or the management server, but this map is used more for information presenting to the user.

====> New updates here started 6/17/08

The data servers are seen as a database that allows any sql statement to be executed on it. 

The management server is in charge of user registration, user authentication (users authenticate to the management server, which tells them a main server to connect to, and they re-authenticate to the main server which relays their information to the management server), main server management ()

<==== End of updates started 6/17/08



-------------------------------------------------

Here's a full reference of the commands available. The ports it can be used on are noted in parenthesis with the command. 644 should be prepended
to each of those port numbers, for example, if a command can be used on port 79, it should be used when connected to the data management
server on TCP/IP port 64479 by a data server. Port mappings are discussed later in this document.

This is the list of request-response commands (ones where, for every request, there will be a corresponding numbered response, see earlier in
this document).


REGISTERACCOUNT (74): requests to register a new Convergia account.  It takes the user's username, a newline, and the user's requested password.
It responds with "OK", a space, a string representing this registration request, a newline, and a JPEG image of a captcha image. The user should enter the
word in the captcha, at which point CONFIRMREGISTERACCOUNT will be called. The response would be FAIL instead of OK if the username
specified already exists.

CONFIRMREGISTERACCOUNT (74): confirms account registration. it takes the registration request id, a newline, and the text that the captcha contained.
This must be called within one minute of the corresponding REGISTERACCOUNT command to work. If the captcha was correct, and the time was still
valid, the account will be created, and OK will be the response. If not, FAIL will be called, with the reason for the failure. (IE you took
too long, You entered an incorrect captcha, etc.) After this returns OK, users should wait

GETSERVERMAP (73): returns the "map" of the server connections, including client connections. The full list of clients, and their connectivity status 
(online or offline) can be derived from this. This replaces LISTONLINE, LISTOFFLINE, and LISTALL from the old protocol. The response is a newline
separated list of nodes, their type, their status, and their connectivity. each line starts with an id representing the node, which can be
anything so long as it uniquely ideintifies that node, and is the same
each time this command is called. then there is pipe, then the name of the node, which, for clients, is the client's username, and for servers,
can be anything. then another pipe, then the type, which
is one of managementserver, mainserver, datamanagementserver, dataserver, or client. then a pipe, then online or offline which is it's status,
then a pipe, then any notes related to this server, then a pipe, then, if the status was offline, the empty string, and if the status is 
online, a pipe separated list of ids of nodes that this node is connected to.




This is a list of orphaned response commands (ones where there is no command sent, just a response received).

RECEIVEMESSAGE ():

SERVERMAPUPDATE ():

OFFLINEMESSAGEAVAILABLE (): 


-------------------------------------------------

Here's a list of port mappings, what listens on them, and what should connect to them. The intent of having multiple ports is that
each port serves only one function.

64473: client to server port
64474: management server unauthenticated port
64475: client to management server port
64476: (for future use) client-to-client port
64477: server to server port
64478: server to management server port
64479: data server to data mangement server port
64480: (for future use) data server to data server port
64481: server to data management server port
64482: management server key validation port
64483: data management server to management server port

In the more detailed description below, I'll refer to each port by it's last 2 digits only, sincce the first 3 digits are all
the same. For example, if I refer to port 82, I'm talking about the management server key validation port.

73: This is the port that clients use to connect to main servers.

74: This is the port that clients can use to connect to the management server to perform unauthenticated commands, such as registering
for a new user account, or requesting public server resources. This is the port connected to when an it3sr:// url is used.

75: This is the port that clients can use to connect to the management server to perform authenticated commands. The main use of this
is to obtain a list of servers to attempt to connect to, and to ask the management server which one to connect to of all that the client
could connect to.

76: (for future use) This port will be a port that clients can use to connect to each other, if such a connection is possible. For
example, let's assume that Bob wants to send a file to Tom. normally, this file would be sent (as online messages) through the
main server that they are connected to (and if they are on different main servers, between the main servers), but, with the addition
of this port, if they are behind the same firewall, such as at work, the file will be directly transferred. Basically, online
messages will be sent directly over this port in the future, where possible. offline messages WILL NOT be sent over this port, even
if the other user is online and could establish a connection to this user's computer. this port will use strong cryptographic keys
to prevent against man-in-the-middle attacks.

77: This port is used by servers to connect to each other. Each server maintains a connection to each other server that it can connect
to. Cross-server messages are then sent across this port. The list of which servers have a connection to which other servers is in the
route table.

78: This is the port that is used by main servers to connect to the management server.
it serves to inform the management server of who's connected to that main server, which main servers it can connect to, etc. The
management server can also send a command to a main server through this port, telling it to disconnect one of it's clients. 

79: This is the port that data servers use to connect to the data management server, and actually exchange data. In the future, it will
also be used to connect directly to any main servers possible to avoid having data relayed through the data management server.
NOTE: this will take the place of the relay servers in relaying data from data servers to main servers.

80: (for future use) This port will be used to directly transfer data between data servers, where possible. Data would be directly
transferred between data servers to improve redundant copying efficiency (when there are enough data servers, all data is stored redundantly)
so that data can be copied directly between data servers instead of having to go through the data management server.

81: This port is used for the main servers to connect to the data management server. They use this port to access data. They see data
through this port as just one hierarchy, and the data management server takes care of spanning that across multiple data servers. In
the future, servers will just ask the data management server what data server stores a particular piece of data, or a list of servers
that store a particular piece of data in the case of redundant storage, and then directly connect to the data server, or, if the data
server is behind a firewall, connect through a relay server, and directly transfer the data between the data server and the main server.
NOTE: see comment on 79, this effectively renders ineffective the above line.

82: This port is used by all clients and servers to connect to the management server to validate authentication nonces when establishing
a connection to other nodes. in the future, when the server architecture is switched to use cryptographic keys instead of nonces (nonces
do not prevent man-in-the-middle attacks whereas cryptographic keys do), this port will authenticate cryptographic keys with the
management server.

83: This port is used by the data management server to connect to the management server. it's used to coordinate data storage with 
the management server.

 

